<div class="rd__b  rd__b--1">
    <h2 class="rd__h rd__h--1" data-title-index="2299"><span class="entry-title-inner">Appendix J: Secrets and Myths</span></h2>
    <p>The information in this section is strictly for the GM. There is much in Thylea that should be strange and mysterious to the players, even those with native-born characters. This appendix provides additional background to the world and its history. It is for you to decide how much of this to reveal to your players. One way to reveal the legends below is during downtime. When the party takes a long rest, or during the night at sea, one of the NPCs (Kyrah, for example) might decide to tell the heroes one of the old legends, especially if it relates to an upcoming adventure.</p>
    <div class="rd__b  rd__b--2">
        <h3 class="rd__h rd__h--2" data-title-index="2300"><span class="entry-title-inner">The History Of Thylea</span></h3>
        <div class="rd__b  rd__b--3">
            <p><span class="entry-title-inner">The Legend Of Creation.</span></p>
            <p>Thylea was of the Old Gods—ancient even when the world was young. Gentle and generous, she was born into a time of war and chaos among her kind. Refusing to take sides in their disputes, she lived her entire life in contemplative silence, never speaking a single word.</p>
            <div class="rd__spc-inline-post">
                <p></p>
            </div>
            <p>Yet though she was silent, she possessed a powerful resolve that the other Gods sensed and respected. Even Kentimane of the Hundred Hands—the most violent and warlike of them all—was drawn to her quiet strength. She alone of all the Gods could quell his furious temper with her calming spirit.</p>
            <p>Eventually, Thylea grew weary of the endless strife and conflicts. She isolated herself from the other Gods, seeking respite on the farthest edges of the ocean. Kentimane—now her lover and protector—followed, turning his back on war and violence to walk with Thylea on the path of tranquility.</p>
            <p>Alone, the pair were happy for a time. But Thylea still felt all the pain and suffering in the world like a million arrows piercing her gentle soul. In time, her joy gave way to despair until, unable to bear it any longer, she drowned herself beneath the water.</p>
            <p>Yet her death was not a surrender... it was a glorious sacrifice. Thylea's body came apart; her head and torso floating back to the surface to become a chain of virgin islands. Her heart burst from her chest and transformed into a great tree rising up from the center of the continent she had birthed. Her limbs sunk to the bottom of the sea, stretching and twisting into great roots that connected each island, nurturing the fertile plants and gentle animals that sprang into being on the islands' surface.</p>
            <p>Kentimane's grief over his lover's death was inconsolable. Without Thylea to temper his moods, he succumbed once more to his most violent urges. Screaming his fury at the heavens, he thrashed and raged in the oceans around the body of his lover, unleashing terrible storms and massive tidal waves that threatened to swallow the new-born islands.</p>
            <p>Yet even after her death, a part of Thylea's spirit remained in the great Heart-Tree at the center of the islands. She reached out—silent as ever—and brushed against her mad husband's mind, soothing his tortured spirit with a soft caress. Sensing her presence, the hundred-handed giant transformed his grief into a new purpose. Binding himself to what was left of his lover with a solemn vow, Kentimane became the ward and protector of the islands, taking up an eternal vigil in the waters around their untouched shores.</p>
            <p>Fed by Thylea's generous spirit—and with Kentimane keeping the evils of the outside world at bay—life in the Forgotten Land flourished into a perfect, unspoiled paradise. And finally, the Goddess who never spoke was content.</p>
        </div>
        <div class="rd__b  rd__b--3">
            <p><span class="entry-title-inner">The Birth Of The Titans.</span></p>
            <p>In the beginning, the islands of Thylea were populated only by harmless plants and gentle animals—the flora and fauna a reflection of the nurturing spirit of the Mother Goddess that sacrificed herself to create them. A virgin paradise, the Forgotten Land was kept safe from the perils and evils of the outside world by the giant Kentimane of the Hundred Hands—Thylea's lover and protector. And together, the two were content.</p>
            <div class="rd__spc-inline-post">
                <p></p>
            </div>
            <p>But one day, the tree at the center of the islands—the transformed heart of the Mother Goddess herself—blossomed with seven strange fruits. Each the size of a boulder, they shimmered and pulsed with vibrant, shifting colors, almost as if alive. Seeing the tempting bounty sprouting from the branches, Kentimane reached from the ocean and plucked the fruit. His fifty heads gorged themselves on the succulent flesh, tearing and chewing until all that remained were seven spike-covered pits, which he tossed into the ocean.</p>
            <p>Instead of sinking, the pits floated on the waves, bobbing up and down. Offended by their taunting presence, Kentimane seized each pit in a clenched fist, squeezing so hard the spikes bit into his flesh and drew blood. Howling in rage, Kentimane slammed the pits down beneath the water, burying them deep beneath the muddy bottom of the ocean floor.</p>
            <p>But the next morning the pits floated back up to the surface. Before Kentimane could seize them again, the pits burst open and the children of Thylea and Kentimane sprang forth into existence.</p>
            <p>The hundred-handed god stared in wonder at his offspring: eight Titans born from the fruit of Thylea's tree, fertilized by the blood of Kentimane himself. Each of the first six pits had incubated a single child blessed with a different attribute drawn from one of their parents: Strength; Beauty; Wisdom; Craft; Prophecy and Swiftness. As these six Titans grew from children into adults, they became demi-gods, each representing the aspect of their parents they most embodied.</p>
            <p>However, from the seventh pit two Titans were born: Sydon and Lutheria, twin brother and sister. Sydon embodied his father's raging fury, and as he grew he became the God of Time and the Lord of Storms. His sister, Lutheria, inherited her mother's stillness and calm... but without Thylea's compassion or gentleness, she would eventually become the Goddess of Death and the Lady of Dreams.</p>
            <p>But all this was far in the future, and Kentimane did not foresee what his offspring would one day become. He could not imagine the strife and suffering the Twins would bring to the peaceful islands. If he had known, he might have drowned them on the spot. But instead, he scooped up his children from the waves—including Sydon and Lutheria—and placed them gently at the base of the great Heart-Tree rising up from the center of the island, where Thylea could watch over them.</p>
            <p>Having deposited the children in the warm bosom of their mother, Kentimane returned to the sea and resumed his eternal vigil, bound by his sacred vow to keep Thylea—and now also their children—safe from the outside world.</p>
        </div>
        <div class="rd__b  rd__b--3">
            <p><span class="entry-title-inner">The Creation of the Fey Races.</span></p>
            <p>For a time the eight children of Thylea and Kentimane lived quiet and contented lives, sheltered on the islands spawned from the body of their mother. But, in time, contentment became loneliness. They were gods, but they had no purpose.</p>
            <div class="rd__spc-inline-post">
                <p></p>
            </div>
            <p>Talieus, the God of Crafting, first born of the siblings, gathered his younger brothers and sisters together and proposed they create races of mortal creatures to worship and revere them. Of all the Titans, only Sydon and Lutheria, his youngest siblings, refused: they were united by the powerful bond, and did not feel the empty loneliness of their kin.</p>
            <p>The other Titans created centaurs, satyrs and nymphs, who quickly spread to populate the islands. Next, they created the cyclopes and gygans, great giants capable of moving earth and stone to build massive temples in honor of Talieus and the others who had given them life.</p>
            <p>Sydon and Lutheria regarded these new mortal races with contempt. They became bitter and resentful, and isolated themselves on the last uninhabited island of Thylea, where their hatred festered.</p>
            <p>One day, Lutheria approached Talieus, claiming she and her twin had grown weary of their solitude. Offering praise and flattery, she urged him to create a new race, one greater than all the others, to dwell on her island.</p>
            <p>Weakened by his sister's adulation, Talieus did as he was bade and the myrmekes were born. An industrious, insect-like race with a shared hive-mind intelligence, the myrmekes quickly spread out from their isolated home, overwhelming and conquering the native species on nearby islands.</p>
            <p>The other Titans condemned Talieus for creating such aggressive and dangerous creatures. Talieus, burning with parental pride, refused act against his newest children. It fell to Sydon, the God of Storms, to halt the myrmekes' advance. As they piled into their ships, he unleashed the fury of the sea, dashing their vessels to smithereens with howling winds, drowning them beneath the waves. Even Sydon could not halt their advance forever. The other Titans, fearful the myrmekes would continue to spread, begged their father for help. Moved by the fears of his children, Kentimane used his hundred hands to gather all the myrmekes onto a single island. Calling on the strength of Thylea herself, he bound them there with powerful magic so they could never leave.</p>
            <p>As punishment for his foolishness and pride, Kentimane stripped Talieus of his power and gave it to Sydon. Using his older brother's former power against him, Sydon bound Talieus and presented him to his sister and now wife as a gift.</p>
            <p>Lutheria took no pity on her helpless elder brother. She blinded the mighty Titan and sewed his lips shut, so he could never tell the others the truth of his downfall. Then she bound his power to her crystal scythe and forced him to wander eternally in the Nether Sea, dragging her throne-ship across the waves behind him by a great chain strapped around his neck.</p>
            <p>Seeing Talieus' fate, the other Titans were horrified. Together they began plotting revenge against the twins, but Lutheria and Sydon were ready for them.</p>
        </div>
        <div class="rd__b  rd__b--3">
            <p><span class="entry-title-inner">The War of the Titans.</span></p>
            <p>For a time the children of Thylea and Kentimane dwelt together in peace. But after Lutheria and Sydon enslaved their eldest brother for creating the myrmekes, the remaining siblings decided upon revenge.</p>
            <div class="rd__spc-inline-post">
                <p></p>
            </div>
            <p>Hergeron, the second eldest brother and the god of Strength and Valor, challenged Sydon to a duel, brashly confident in his own abilities. But Sydon had absorbed much of the enslaved Talieus' power, and he easily bested his challenger. Sydon imprisoned the defeated Hergeron beneath a great tower, chaining him to so that the full weight of the building was forever pressing down on Hergeron's enormous neck and shoulders.</p>
            <p>The remaining four siblings, realizing Sydon had grown too powerful to challenge directly, decided to strike at Lutheria. In secret, they traveled to her island but the Goddess of Death had set a trap for her kin. Through the ritual sacrifice of a thousand basilisks, she had created a great pool of poisonous blood at the heart of her domain. When the invaders set foot upon the island they triggered wards of power that released the magic of the foul pool in a lethal burst, instantly turning three of them to stone. Only Chalcia, the Goddess of Swiftness, was nimble enough to escape.</p>
            <p>Knowing the Twins would come after her, Chalcia took shelter beneath a massive volcano. There she could use her speed and quickness to survive in the labyrinth of tunnels and lava tubes. When Sydon learned of the failed attack against his sister-wife, his fury knew no bounds. In a blind rage, he summoned a great storm to lash all the islands of Thylea, seeking to flood the chambers where Chalcia was hiding.</p>
            <p>The storms threatened to wash away Thylea itself, something that Kentimane would not allow. Kentimane had stayed neutral in the battles of his children but, once the safety of all of Thylea became threatened, he was forced to intervene. Kentimane blunted the storms, and he forbade Sydon and Lutheria from destroying the volcano that sheltered their fugitive sister. Sydon was loathe to let Chalcia escape retribution, but even he was not strong enough to defy his mighty father. Lutheria, cunning as ever, knew of another way to get revenge.</p>
            <p>Uniting their power, and the power stolen from their fallen siblings, the Twins reached deep into the foundation of Thylea. They shifted rock and stone, careful not to disturb the islands above as they sealed off the tunnels and chambers beneath the volcano one by one.</p>
            <p>Chalcia ran from their relentless work, driven ever deeper beneath the earth. In the end, the elusive Goddess of Swiftness found herself trapped in a tiny chamber at the very heart of the volcano itself. With every exit sealed, the walls slowly closed in tighter and tighter as burning lava oozed through cracks and crevices in floor and ceiling. Instead of crushing her, the Twins stopped at the last instant, entombing their sister for all eternity in a crypt of searing heat and noxious fumes.</p>
        </div>
        <div class="rd__b  rd__b--3">
            <p><span class="entry-title-inner">The Arrival of the Dragonlords.</span></p>
            <p>Their siblings gone, Sydon and Lutheria ruled supreme over the lands of Thylea, worshipped and honored by the gygans, centaurs, nymphs and other fey. Ages passed, and the dead Titans were forgotten by the children they had created. As far as history remembered, the Twin Titans were the authors of all.</p>
            <div class="rd__spc-inline-post">
                <p></p>
            </div>
            <p>But the remote continent birthed from their mother could not remain hidden forever. As the centuries passed, the so-called civilized races, humans, elves, dwarves and their like, began to stumble across the islands at the far reaches of the Forgotten Sea. The first to arrive were refugees and castaways, survivors of ships gone astray. Half-drowned, they crawled onto island shores and carved out a meager existence among the native fey races.</p>
            <p>Sydon ignored these newcomers. They were too weak and pathetic to acknowledge. Lutheria found something compelling in their nature. When others came, the explorers and settlers, she stayed Sydon's fury and allowed them to land safely so she could study these strange folk. As their numbers grew, the civilized races established small villages along the coasts. Bit by bit, they spread across the islands of Thylea, until their numbers brought them into conflict with the original inhabitants.</p>
            <p>At first, the civilized races suffered losses whenever they encountered the fey folk. They had neither the strength nor numbers to challenge the gygans or centaurs in battle. They lacked the power to resist the magic tricks and temptations of the nymphs, dryads and satyrs. Everything changed with the arrival of the Dragonlords, a band of heroes who fought astride great winged mounts.</p>
            <p>Their leader was Xander Huorath, with his mighty silver dragon, Balmytria. The second in command, Xander's chief rival, was Rizon Phobas, who rode Balmytria's mate, a great bronze dragon. Joining them were Adonis Neurdagon, beautiful and vain; the brothers Telamok and Estor Arkelandor, ruthless and savage warriors; and several others who have since been forgotten. Each warrior was oathsworn to a dragon, and together, they were nigh unstoppable in battle.</p>
            <p>The arrival of these magnificent creatures stoked Lutheria's fascination with the newcomers. The dragons were unlike anything found in Thylea. At his sister's urging, Sydon ignored the pleading of his worshippers to cleanse Thylea of the invaders. Under the leadership of the Dragonlords, the civilized races entered an age of unprecedented expansion.</p>
            <p>Villages became towns, and towns grew into great walled cities. Encounters between the newcomers and the native races became more frequent, and more violent. Now the newcomers were winning. The native races were pushed back, retreating into the unexplored wilds. Still, out of respect for his sister-wife's curiosity, Sydon held his fury in check, just waiting an inevitable spark that would ignite the fires of all-out war.</p>
            <p>He did not have to wait long.</p>
        </div>
        <div class="rd__b  rd__b--3">
            <p><span class="entry-title-inner">Estor and the First War.</span></p>
            <p>Of all the Dragonlords, the brothers Telamok and Estor Arkelander were the most ruthless and savage. Telamok, the elder, dreamed of being a great king. He offered his protection, and that of his dragon, to any who would swear allegiance to him. He promised a future in which the so-called civilized species had utter dominance over Thylea and the fey creatures.</p>
            <div class="rd__spc-inline-post">
                <p></p>
            </div>
            <p>Mortals of all races flocked to his banner. He built fortresses and walled cities to protect his followers from attack, the foundation of what would one day become the great kingdom of Mytros. The ranks of his armies, under the command of his younger brother Estor, swelled.</p>
            <p>For Telamok, war was merely a tool, a way to build and secure the future of his people. Estor, however, cared little for the future. He had no desire to rule or govern, and his only joy was battle. Most, including his dragon, thought he was a brave hero, seeking glory. The truth was far worse, for war was the only way that Estor could satisfy his bloodlust and cruelty. His victories on the battlefield meant nothing beyond the chance of slaughter and carnage.</p>
            <p>As Telamok's kingdom grew, it expanded into gygan territory. Knowing the one-eyed, six-armed giants would not welcome outsiders, he commanded Estor to lead his army against them. In Telamok's mind, his brother would break the gygan ranks and force the giants to bend the knee. Estor, however, had other plans.</p>
            <p>Riding on his dragon, he led the charge that routed the gygans. The giants fought bravely, but were no match for the Dragonlord and his mount. Once they knew the battle was lost, they threw down their weapons in surrender. Estor refused to take prisoners, and refused to parley. To the horror of his noble dragon mount, he ordered his troops to massacre every single gygan warrior.</p>
            <p>The gygan threat was gone, but Estor was not finished. He pushed his soldiers onwards to the towns where the gygans lived. Their warriors slain, the remainder were now defenseless. Estor's dragon begged him to show mercy, but he was deaf to her pleas. His army massacred mothers and children, the old and the infirm. Only a handful of gygans escaped to warn the other fey folk of Estor's atrocities.</p>
            <p>The unbridled slaughter revealed Estor's true nature and his dragon abandoned him. The consequences of his actions went much further. Seeing the slaughter, Lutheria finally recognized the threat the newcomers posed, and she released Sydon from his vow to not harm them. With his fury finally unleashed, Sydon gathered a great army of fey creatures and led them against the civilized races that had butchered the gygans. Sydon meant to drive the invaders into the sea.</p>
            <p>The First War had begun.</p>
        </div>
        <div class="rd__b  rd__b--3">
            <p><span class="entry-title-inner">The Curse of Estor Arkelander.</span></p>
            <p>The atrocities of Estor Arkelander drove his dragon to abandon him. But even without his mount, Estor continued his murderous campaign against the native creatures as the captain of the Ultros, a magical ship with a crew nearly as savage and bloodthirsty as Estor himself. The crew of the <em>Ultros</em> ravaged the islands of Thylea, leaving slaughter in their wake. Sydon threw everything against the vessel, trying to smash it with hundred-foot waves or drag it down to the bottom of the sea. The magic of the <em>Ultros</em> was so powerful even the God of Storms couldn't sink it.</p>
            <div class="rd__spc-inline-post">
                <p></p>
            </div>
            <p>With Sydon's failure, it fell to Lutheria to find a way to end Estor's reign of terror. She approached the barbaric Captain in a dream: if Estor swore to end his massacres against her children, she would give him and his crew eternal life by ritual magic. Estor was naturally wary of a trap, particularly when approached by a naked goddess in his dreams, but he knew that he was safe on the Ultros. Even the Goddess of Death could not harm him. Seduced by the Goddess, he woke from his dream and slit the throats of his officers as a blood sacrifice to begin her immortality ritual.</p>
            <p>Lutheria came to him on a cold wind, swooping in from void of a moonless night to land on the deck of the Ultros. The Captain, as Estor now styled himself, was enchanted by her cold, cruel beauty and lay with the Goddess to consummate the arrangement. The two were surrounded by the leering corpses of his butchered men.</p>
            <p>As the first rays of sun climbed over the horizon, Lutheria vanished. The officers that Estor had murdered rose to their feet. Though all knew how Estor had betrayed them, Lutheria's ritual bound them to his will. When they saluted their Captain, Estor let out a great, roaring laugh. He knew he had been blessed by Lutheria and would never die.</p>
            <p>The blessing of the Goddess of Death soon revealed its nature as a curse. Estor and his crew could not die, but they still felt pain: wounds would not kill them, but neither would they heal. Instead, they festered and rotted. Age could not touch them, but they felt the ravages of disease and illness. Lutheria was true to her word: as the years turned to decades and then centuries, they did not die. They endured as twisted and disfigured creatures, trapped in a world between life and death as they were slowly driven mad.</p>
            <p>After centuries of torment, Estor and his crew tried to break Lutheria's curse with a second ritual. They sought the release of death, but the Mistress of Death would not grant them peace. Their bodies decomposed and fell away, but their spirits were bound to the Ultros, now a ship manned by ghosts and doomed to forever sail the seas of Thylea.</p>
        </div>
        <div class="rd__b  rd__b--3">
            <p><span class="entry-title-inner">Summoning the New Gods.</span></p>
            <div class="rd__quote">
                <p class="rd__quote-line rd__quote-line--last">“<em>Some say that it was the Dragonlords who summoned the Five Gods. Others say that it was the silver dragon, Balmytria. So much time has passed now; the truth may never be known.</em>”</p>
                <p><span class="rd__quote-by">— Aesop, Keeper of the Dragon Shrine</span></p>
            </div>
            <div class="rd__spc-inline-post">
                <p></p>
            </div>
            <p>At the beginning of the First War the civilized peoples won many victories. Led by the Dragonlords, they rode roughshod over the armies of the Titans. The children of Thylea could not stand against the great dragons and were routed time and time again.</p>
            <p>The armies of gygans and centaurs prayed to Sydon and Lutheria for aid, crying out to the Twins to save them from extinction. They begged the Titans to destroy the dragons, so that they could meet the civilized races in equal strength on the battlefield.</p>
            <p>Sydon and Lutheria heard their laments and joined the struggle. The tide of war turned in favor of the native races: even a dragon cannot stand against a Titan. Whenever the dragons took to the skies, Sydon lashed them with raging winds and blasts of lightning, forcing them to the ground, where they became vulnerable to the wrath of Lutheria, who assailed them with her wicked scythe and death magic.</p>
            <p>Many dragons were lost, and others fled. But the silver dragon, Balmytria, knew that Lutheria and Sydon would eventually find them all. In her final stand against the tyranny of the Titans, the silver dragon threw herself heedlessly against them, tearing and clawing, even after suffering numerous mortal injuries. When at last her energy was exhausted, she collapsed to the ground dead, and the Twins spat on her corpse.</p>
            <p>Balmytria's death ripped a hole in the very fabric of reality that rippled throughout the multiverse. Inspired by her sacrifice, five celestial beings answered her prayer and came to Thylea to protect her people. These beings are known as the Five Gods, who we still worship today: Mytros, Volkan, Pylor, Vallus and Kyrah.</p>
            <p>The Five pledged themselves to protect the civilized races, restoring the balance of power. In the years that followed, an uneasy truce was brokered, creating a peace that has lasted for 500 years.</p>
            <p><em>In any case, this is how the story is usually told...</em></p>
        </div>
        <div class="rd__b  rd__b--3">
            <p><span class="entry-title-inner">The Game of the Gods.</span></p>
            <div class="rd__quote">
                <p class="rd__quote-line rd__quote-line--last">“<em>They say that truth is often stranger than fiction, and history is often not quite what it seems. The silver dragon, Balmytria, was indeed responsible for the summoning of the Five Gods, but she did not beckon them down from the heavens. They were not some foreign, celestial saviors.</em>”</p>
                <p><span class="rd__quote-by">— Chondrus, Priest of Lutheria</span></p>
            </div>
            <div class="rd__spc-inline-post">
                <p></p>
            </div>
            <p>Balmytria saw that unless the Titans were stopped, they would destroy all of Thylea. She vowed action.</p>
            <p>Knowing that Sydon and Lutheria were proud creatures, Balmytria challenged the Twins to the game of twenty squares, which is also called the Royal Game. She summoned them to the island of the Golden Heart, which is the home of the Mother Goddess herself. They would play beneath the great tree, with the mother of the Titans as their sacred witness.</p>
            <p>The stakes would be simple: she would wager her life and the lives of all her kind against the divine power of the Titans. In this way, the war could be ended.</p>
            <p>Lutheria saw the trap right away, but her husband would not listen. Sydon had never been defeated at the Royal Game in all his centuries. He accepted Balmytria's terms, and the game began.</p>
            <p>When gods play the game of twenty squares, the pieces symbolize entire armies, and the fall of the dice are like the hammers of Fate, drenching the earth with the blood of those armies. Thousands of soldiers may live and die by the turn of a single gambit.</p>
            <p>Balmytria knew that Sydon had never lost at the Royal Game. Accordingly, she chose her moves with extreme care, taking the full time allotted—one rotation of the stars per turn. And all the while, she was maddeningly silent. Sydon shouted at her, demanding that she look him in the eyes, rise to his taunts, or just say anything at all. He quickly lost patience with the game, rolling the dice as soon as his turns began, simply to have it over with. His impatience proved his undoing.</p>
            <p>Balmytria won the first game, shattering the Titan's winning record and his pride. He raised his fists to the sky and mountains crumbled, so angry was he. But before his sister-wife could calm him, he had doubled the stakes and challenged the silver dragon to a rematch.</p>
            <p>This continued for five more games. Balmytria remained patient, neither speaking nor eating even as a full month passed. Meanwhile, Sydon spiralled into a wrath such as the world had never seen.</p>
            <p>Lutheria clawed at her own face, furious with her husband's idiocy. She could not interfere with the game directly, for the magic that enforces the game of twenty squares is woven deep into the fabric of the multiverse.</p>
            <p>But she knew that the seventh game was sacred. "Seventh game takes all,"they say. If Sydon could win the seventh game, then the six previous matches would mean nothing. The Titans would have their way.</p>
            <p>As her husband lost game after game, Lutheria sat quietly, weaving magic into the dice. Even the greatest spells in Thylea seemed to have no effect. Desperate, she began to pour her divine power into the dice. As the magical energy took hold of the dice, she felt herself growing weaker—and Sydon began to win. No matter how carelessly he threw the dice, they delivered victory. And as the final game drew to a close, it was clear that Balmytria was about to lose eveything.</p>
            <p>Laughing, arrogant, triumphant, the Twin Titans threw open their mouths and shouted in the face of the silver dragon, "You are nothing. <em>You are nothing.</em>"</p>
            <p>But Balmytria only smiled. "I have staked my life on this game, and you have staked your divine power. You gave your divine power to win this game, but now I give my life to match your sacrifice."With this, she plunged a dagger into her chest, and her blood spilled across the twenty squares, soaking the enchanted dice.</p>
            <p>When Balmytria's blood mixed with the magic of the dice, the fate of the world was forever altered.</p>
            <p>Balmytria knew the dragons could not defeat the immortal Titans unless they became immortals themselves. That was her plan all along. She never intended to kill Sydon and Lutheria, for she knew that the Fates were working against her. Instead, she sought to steal the divine power of the Titans for her own blood.</p>
            <p>As Balmytria's blood drained from her body, the Titans' divine power replaced it. She ascended into the heavens as Mytros, the Goddess of Dawn. Her husband became Volkan, the God of the Forge. Her children became Vallus, the Goddess of Wisdom; Pythor, the God of Battle; Narsus, the God of Beauty; and Kyrah, the Goddess of Music. Together, this new pantheon would turn the tide of the war completely.</p>
            <p>History says the dragons are gone, but that is not entirely true. The dragons are still here, but they have been changed into something even greater. Mytros won the war that could not be won by sacrificing herself and ensuring a future for all the mortals of Thylea.</p>
        </div>
        <div class="rd__b  rd__b--3">
            <p><span class="entry-title-inner">The Oath of Peace.</span></p>
            <div class="rd__quote">
                <p class="rd__quote-line rd__quote-line--last">“<em>If you desire it, I will tell you the story of how the Dragonlords were destroyed, and how the Oath of Peace came to be.</em>”</p>
                <p><span class="rd__quote-by">— Kyrah, Poet Laureate of Mytros</span></p>
            </div>
            <div class="rd__spc-inline-post">
                <p></p>
            </div>
            <p>With the arrival of the Five Gods, the Titans faced an existential threat. They were badly weakened from the fighting of the First War, and much of their divine power had been sapped away. Joined by the power of the Five Gods, the mortal armies were nigh unstoppable.</p>
            <p>The Dragonlords made their final voyage into the Forgotten Sea, and great battles were fought over land and water. Eventually, the centaur armies were broken, and the gygan armies were all but exterminated. Sydon and Lutheria had very little left with which they could fight—but they were still gods.</p>
            <p>Lutheria lay claim to the vast underworld of the Nether Sea, capturing the souls of the dead to make up for what she had lost. Sydon secured his hold on the waters of Thylea, generating great storms that battered the mortal cities into submission. In this way, they forced a stalemate in the war, with the hope that they might recover from their losses.</p>
            <p>As the Titans consolidated their remaining power, they struck a revenge blow against the mortal armies. They hunted down and slaughtered most of the remaining Dragonlords, including Estor Arkelander, the captain of the <em>Ultros</em>. The true fate of these brave warriors is largely unrecorded in the histories. In the end, both sides of the war were threatened with total annihilation.</p>
            <p>Finally exhausted, the Titans and the Five Gods met once more beneath the great tree of the Golden Heart. They cut their hands and made blood handshakes, agreeing to a solemn truce for five hundred years. This agreement became known as the Oath of Peace, and Mytros, the Goddess of Dawn, sealed the oath with most of her remaining power.</p>
            <p>Damon, the great wizard of the Dragonlords, saw it done. He carried the scroll of the oath and the bodies of the fallen Dragonlords back to the city. And then he disappeared into history.</p>
        </div>
        <div class="rd__b  rd__b--3">
            <p><span class="entry-title-inner">The Golden Age.</span></p>
            <p>Now, the time of mortals had come. The settlement of Mytros expanded into a great city, and it was protected by the twin Colossi forged by Volkan—beacons of civilization on the shores of a wild frontier. New settlers came from beyond the Forgotten Sea, and the mortal population of Thylea swelled.</p>
            <div class="rd__spc-inline-post">
                <p></p>
            </div>
            <p>The children of the Dragonlords became kings, and their dynasties ruled over new cities that sprang up across the land. As the worship of the Five spread, their power over the land and oceans grew, until every village boasted shrines to Volkan and Pythor. The dominion of Sydon and Lutheria was nearly forgotten.</p>
            <p>Five centuries seemed like an eternity to mortals, but the time now grows near when the Oath of Peace must finally come to an end.</p>
        </div>
    </div>
</div>