---
title: THESTWICK
draft: true
date: 2024-09-01
---
Reclamation 
>My dearest Elizabeth, 
>How I long to return home. This backwater rubbish heap has infested my very soul, and I fear a thousand baths will not rid me of its influence. How any of these wretched fenfolk tolerate the endless eels and snails is beyond me. The medley of putrid stenches seeping out of the bog, the creek, and the perilous watchtower continuously amaze; were the smells not so offensive to my sensibilities, I may hope to write a treatise on the incredible olfactory diversity of this hellish swamp. With any luck, these new “specialists” Lord Fandry has employed will handle our remaining woes in due time. Let’s pray the duke’s recruiters have better judgment now than they had when they were putting together his pathetic ensemble of lackeys. 
>I shall be with you soon. Please purchase as much soap as we can afford. 
>
>Yours truly, 
>Edmund Algrove

THE PEACEFUL FISHING VILLAGE IN THE HAUNTED FEN 
For decades, the tiny village of Thestwick-on-Alderham has been an afterthought. Once a military outpost of minor note, the marshy fishing village quickly drifted into obscurity once tensions with the neighboring duchy faded into memory. In the years that followed, a scant few residents decided to remain in the quickly abandoned town, living simple lives in thatched-roof shacks. Fishermen caught eels with the aid of their trained moorwings, and the once great watchtower slowly sank into the endless fen. For Alderham peasants seeking to enjoy peaceful lives far from the watchful eyes of the duchess, Thestwick was an unusual but reliable haven. All of that changed when the current duchess married. Lady Mabel Fandry had always been a cruel overseer of her meek territory, but at least those living in far-off Thestwick could avoid the brunt of her despotism. Unfortunately, her new husband has established Thestwick as the central hub of his grand schemes. Lord Nathaniel Fandry, Duke of the Alderham Fen has sunk incredible resources into the village, and now Thestwick is the epicenter of a grand infrastructural endeavor. As the water levels continue to fall, life in Thestwick is changing rapidly. With one simple change, Lord Fandry and his gang of thugs have upended the way of life for every villager in Thestwick and the surrounding fen. Though he believes that a successful reclamation will yield nearly 100,000 acres of newly arable farmland, the fen dwellers who are losing their livelihoods don’t see it that way. If they wanted to be farmers, they’d live somewhere else— despite the duchess’s awful reputation, she supposedly treats her own serfs quite well. Thestwick’s residents live in the fen because that’s the life they have chosen. No amount of valuable soil will change that. As the reclamation approaches completion, Lord Fandry’s lead surveyor tells him that low-lying Thestwick will be the last village to be completely drained. With his goal in sight, it seems all but inevitable that the bleak but independent fishing village will soon be a cozy farming town. There’s just one problem: the Alderham Fen is haunted. A quartet of supernatural creatures have harried Lord Fandry every step of the way, and now that his success is close at hand, he has summoned a group of adventurers to ensure that the villainous residents of his duchy won’t interfere with his schemes. As guests of the duke and duchess, the party of adventurers will have to determine how best to confront the Lowland Reclamation Corps’ greatest foes: Anise Bloodbirch, Black Alfie, Bulgreck, and Sin Ranulf. ALDERHAM FEN The duchy of Alderham Fen is just one of many such territories in the Veglenic Kingdom. With nearly 2,000 square miles of land, the Alderham Fen is one of the largest duchies, though it is also among the sparsest and poorest. This is due, in no small part, to the eponymous fen. Over half of the duchy’s area is dominated by uncultivated marshland. It is difficult to live in the fen and even harder to find a way to make the fen valuable. As such, the duchy has always remained largely irrelevant in the politics of the great kingdom. Small border skirmishes occasionally brought attention to the sprawling duchy, though Alderham Fen has been at peace for decades now. While neighboring territories exert their political will in the Kingdom’s capital, Lady Mabel has struggled just to keep her subjects well-fed and free from disease. Thestwick is Alderham Fen’s southernmost population center. Beyond it lies 20 more miles of murky marshland. Somewhere in this stretch of fen lies the border with Talmouth, a far wealthier duchy. The exact location of this border is occasionally disputed, but as it sits somewhere in an unlivable marsh, the two duchies mostly ignore the ambiguity. When Lady Mabel’s great-great-grandfather ruled over Alderham Fen, this territorial dispute was a flashpoint. He was so concerned that the Talmouth knights would attempt to annex his worthless marsh that he erected the Thestwick Watch, a stone garrison that later spawned the surrounding village. The capital city of Alderham Fen is Lotthingham, a city of some 15,000 residents 60 miles to the north of Thestwick. Lord and Lady Fandry maintain Surley Manor, a quaint estate in Lotthingham Heath, high above the drudgery of the fen that they oversee. FEN DWELLERS Many of Thestwick’s permanent residents are descended from soldiers once stationed at Thestwick Watch. After Alderham Fen and Talmouth peacefully resolved their border dispute, a few soldiers chose to remain in the lowlands. Some even brought additional family from Lotthingham to join the nascent community. Gradually, they built up the fishing village in the shadow of the abandoned watchtower. Of course, there had always been a very small population of fen dwellers scattered throughout the lowlands. Some found small hills on which to build miniscule farmsteads, while others built stilted shacks similar to those found in Thestwick today. These native fen dwellers taught the new residents of Thestwick crucial survival tips for life in the fen: how to build roofs from thurleigh reeds, how to fish with moorwings, and how to heat a home with peat. Some indigenous fenfolk still live in even greater solitude than those who prefer the company of other villagers. Make no mistake: these fenfolk are technically still subjects of Lord and Lady Fandry, but most live in such remote marshy hovels that they’re unlikely to even know the Lord and Lady’s names. Those who trace their lineage to the Alderham knights garrisoned in Thestwick Watch are typically taller than the native fenfolk, with lighter eyes and thicker body hair. By this point, however, most residents of Thestwick have a mixed ancestry: almost all are descended from a mixture of native fenfolk and those who came to the village after the border dispute. After nearly a century of living together, Thestwick has its own unique culture, distinct from both the more rustic fenfolk who live outside the village as well as the farmers and artisans who live north of the lowlands.
- table
Veglenic Names Male Female Surnames 1 Albon Alma Balliston 2 Dennis Dorothy Clarke 3 Ethan Evelyn Framouth 4 Gerald Gladys Hughes 5 Harrison Genevieve Ignace 6 Marshal Margaret Linnet 7 Otis Nell Tallen 8 Wallace Victoria Wimmingham

GETTING TO THESTWICK There are exactly two ways to arrive in Thestwick-on-Alderham: the hard way, and the much harder way. Wise travelers will hire a riverboat. Though the fen is slowly draining, the Lowland Reclamation Corps is doing “everything they can” to ensure that Alderham Creek is unaffected. This has decidedly not been the case, but the assurance persists nonetheless. It is still possible to travel by boat with minimal disruption from just outside of Lotthingham to Thestwick proper. Riverboat travelers are encouraged to pack exceedingly lightly. The river runs low, and heavy cargo will necessitate frequent portaging over particularly swampy sections of the creek. The 60-mile journey from the duchy’s capital can take as few as three days or as long as a week, depending on the height of the river, the weight of the cargo, and any necessary detours. Those who choose to walk or ride horses to Thestwick will have a much harder time. The fen may be drying out, but there are no roads, and what solid ground a traveler may find is still deceptively moist and difficult to traverse. Every year, there are new reports of people going missing in the fen. Though the swath of bog may appear to be a minor annoyance to the unwary, the Alderham Fen is in fact a voracious quagmire. Accidental drownings are common. A strong adventurer may even have a harder time freeing themself when sinking into the mud. The stronger the traveler, the more likely it is that they will simply dig themself a deep hole. Travelers are advised to wear a pack that is easy to doff, carry a walking stick, and trek in groups. Various predators also stalk the fen. Wolves, snakes, and swarms of bloodbeetles make the voyage far riskier than it might at first seem. If rumors are to be believed, travelers may have to contend with goblins, hobs, bog witches, ogres, bugbears, wights, and redcaps. There are plenty of corroborated tales that seem to prove the existence of one or more of these creatures, though which are genuine threats is anyone’s best guess. Fenfolk are a superstitious lot, and their own judgments and guidance may not be 100% reliable.

>GM NOTE: “Canonically,” your players’ characters have been summoned to Thestwick-on-Alderham by the duke himself. The party of adventurers have been paid to ensure the monsters of the Alderham Fen don’t interrupt the drainage operation. There will be occasional reference to this fact throughout the borough guide, but adventures in Thestwick need not begin at the behest of the duke. It is entirely possible for the players to stumble on Thestwick while trudging through the fen, or perhaps they’re seeking out the aid of someone else in town. “The duke’s request” is a useful framing device for this guide, but it should not be prescriptive to your own storytelling. If that’s not how you want your Thestwick adventure to begin, ignore it entirely!


THE DUKE AND DUCHESS At the center of Thestwick’s rapid transformation, one finds exactly what one comes to expect in Veglenic politics: a bold scheme, aristocratic maneuvering, and two nobles who despise each other. Throughout the Veglenic Kingdom, duchies are passed down matrilineally. It is the duchess’s firstborn daughter who inherits the territory. Nevertheless, the Veglenic Kingdom is highly patriarchal in almost every other way. Men are to be the soldiers, the merchants, and—rules of succession be damned—the proper monarchs. As such, a duchess is often extremely limited in what she is able to accomplish on her own. Most noble parents only pass their territory to their daughter once said daughter is wedded. The duchess is then able to rule with a great deal more authority. Without a husband, many citizens view a duchess as unfit to lead. Lady Mabel assumed her position far earlier than she had expected. Both her parents died within the span of a month. Mabel was only 17 years old. Though most duchies would fall into immediate chaos with such a perilous power vacuum, the Alderham Fen managed just fine. Some minor barons tried to make bold claims about twisted family trees as a limp attempt to usurp the duchess, but most were happy to leave the poor duchy in Lady Mabel’s hands. For the first few years, Lady Mabel sought out potential suitors to lend credibility to her rule. Some presented themselves, but none met the duchess’s high standards. It wasn’t until Nathaniel (then Baron Nathaniel Lemmith of Chestwick) pitched Lady Mabel his grand scheme for reclaiming the Alderham Fen that she decided to settle down. Theirs was a marriage of strategy. Nathaniel offered no impressive title or valuable land, but he had a vision for the duchy that would be lucrative. He also had a band of cronies that showed him infinite loyalty. These ruffians were more valuable to the duchy than the welltrained knights who swear fealty to the duchess. Knights could fight on behalf of the dukedom, but they would be just as likely to defect or attempt a coup. Strong and faithful comrades might lack title or proper armor, but loyalty is far rarer in Alderham Fen. The duke and duchess do not like each other, though few noble pairings in the Veglenic Kingdom do. Lady Mabel gave Lord Nathaniel the resources and the legitimacy to carry out his plan, and Lord Nathaniel has promised Lady Mabel a stronger future for her duchy. Beyond that, there is no affection. He fears her irredeemable cruelty, and she loathes his pathetic need for attention. Their union would make no sense outside the world of conniving royals.

Lord Nathaniel Fandry, Duke of the Alderham Fen 
Despite his impressive station, Lord Nathaniel Fandry (he/him) had an inauspicious rise to royalty. The second son of a lesser baron, young Nathaniel was strongly encouraged to join the Alderham knights. His father paid for swordmasters to train Nathaniel from childhood, and when the boy came of age, Nathaniel’s father purchased him a horse and a pricey set of plate armor. Fearing a lifetime of pointless border skirmishes, Nathaniel promptly sold both and moved to the city. It was in Lotthingham that Nathaniel finally found his footing. He joined a gang, moved in with the Lotthingham Rotters (a ragtag assemblage that would later become the Lowland Reclamation Corps), and started conning travelers. He made a pittance, but it sure beat being a knight. Hell, most knights in Alderham Fen didn’t even receive land, and if they did, it was some flooded plot of marshland to the south. When robbing a carriage traveling from Talmouth, Nathaniel met one Louisa Terrowin, a watchmaker who was en route to Surley Estate to fulfill a commission for Lady Mabel. Louisa pleaded with Nathaniel not to hurt her or her companions, and Nathaniel gave her the same ultimatum he gave all his marks: “give me something more valuable to do, and I’ll have no reason to bother you.” Quick on her feet, Louisa pitched Nathaniel an idea she was workshopping for a wind-powered water pump that could theoretically drain a small plot of land. Tantalized by the idea, Nathaniel commandeered the carriage, rode on to Surley Estate, and presented Lady Mabel with a compelling reason to marry him. Nathaniel does not think of himself as a bad man. He regrets his immoral behavior and the harm he and his gang brought to so many people, but he also recognizes the futility of life for so many in the godforsaken duchy. The Alderham Fen is a hopeless bog for so many. Louisa Terrowin and her ingenious contraption presents a way forward for the entire region. With high-quality, arable farmland, so many second sons will be able to live honorable lives tending to fertile fields instead of joining a purposeless defense force or a despicable gang. More than anything, Lord Fandry desperately craves affection. His father was a tough and brutal man, and life with his gang was the closest he ever felt to being loved. Despite the total absence of romance in his marriage, he expresses a constant need for gestures of love from Lady Mabel. He demands loyalty from his men not just because it serves his aims, but because he can’t help but feel utterly crushed whenever he is betrayed. The older he gets, the more often disappointment will give way to terrifying violence; the last man to abandon the Lowland Reclamation Corps was hunted down and strung from the windpump for all to see.

Lady Mabel Fandry, Duchess of the Alderham Fen 
The Duchess Lady Mabel (she/her) is no stranger to tragedy. After all three of young Mabel’s siblings died before the age of 10, she received sympathy from her parents’ subjects. Such a sad and twisted fate is not uncommon, even for Veglenic nobles. The greatest apothecaries and pagan healers cannot always save a sick child, let alone three. After the sudden death of her parents and her first fiancé, however, the people of Alderham Fen instead declared the duchess cursed. Everyone Mabel had loved was now dead, and the young woman was immediately expected to grieve in private while ruling her duchy and finding a “replacement betrothed.” Lady Mabel is now 32 years old, hardly young given the short life expectancy of those living in the fen. She cherished her simple life in Surley Manor, relaxing on her chaise longue and pressing flowers from her garden into treasured booklets. Lord Fandry, needy as always, stole her away from that peaceful existence. He dragged her alongside his cronies all the way out to Thestwick-on-Alderham to help him “oversee the operation.” Of course, the real reason she was relocated to the middle of the marsh was so that Nathaniel never had to feel alone. As she withers away in the fetid swamp, Lady Mabel is beginning to wonder whether she actually is cursed after all. Nevertheless, Lady Mabel refuses to resign herself to months of misery. She is dedicated to using her time in Thestwick to improve her image. Mabel has transformed herself into a bona fide errand boy, attempting to tackle any minor task that her subjects need. She’ll fetch leashes for the eelers, she’ll jot down measurements for Louisa, and she’ll pour drinks for Nathaniel’s cronies. And yet, no matter how simple the task, Lady Mabel always seems to fumble. If anything, Lady Mabel’s reputation has only further deteriorated throughout her tenure in Thestwick. Every person she helps ends up worse for it. She is clumsy, unlucky, forgetful, and—despite her good intentions—lazy. Whenever she can cut corners to fulfill her “daily good deeds,” she does so, and people often end up hurt because of it. It remains unclear whether Mabel is aware that she is failing miserably, or whether she believes that she is slowly making progress.

>IS LADY MABEL CURSED? 
>Lady Mabel has had her fair share of tragedy. Her parents, siblings, and first beloved died before she was 18. Her entire duchy is a boggy wasteland. She married a man she can’t stand, and now she has to live in the middle of nowhere, failing at task after task. The people say she’s cursed. Is she? Does it matter? In Thestwick-on-Alderham, curses are very real. Resident witch Anise Bloodbirch practices varieties of black magic that could be responsible for Lady Mabel’s tribulations, but was she present years ago when the duchess’s woes began? Are there other witches in the duchy that could be responsible? Has one of her vocal opponents weaponized dark magic against her? The answer is ultimately up to you. Perhaps your narrative is stronger if the “curse” is simply a self-fulfilling prophecy. Tragedy begets tragedy, and it’s hard to escape from a downward spiral of bad luck and worse decisions. Then again, coincidences cannot be “solved,” whereas a curse may be lifted. It would be a great kindness if the party could ascertain the nature of Lady Mabel’s hex and dispel it. The bigger question is whether Lady Mabel is worthy of redemption.


The Lowland Reclamation Corps 
Once a dirty Lotthingham gang, the Lowland Reclamation Corps now acts as Lord Nathaniel Fandry’s right-hand crew. While the duchess demanded that Nathaniel bring a skeleton crew of Alderham knights as well, the Lowland Reclamation Corps—often referred to as simply “the Corps”—act as laborers, guards, and drunken lackeys Louisa Terrowin, the tinkerer who inspired the fen’s reclamation, may have exaggerated how easy it would be to drain the marsh. The windpump is a powerful machine, but it’s only effective if the Corps can successfully build and maintain dikes to keep the water from sloshing back in. The process of slowly building up mounds of earth around huge swaths of the fen took months and months of work, even after conscripting many of the duchess’s serfs. Now that that first batch of work is nearly completed, the Lowland Reclamation Corps mostly just bullies around the locals, sees to Nathaniel’s needs, and occasionally sends squads to various leaking embankments. There is an uneasy power differential at play among the Lowland Reclamation Corps. Lord Fandry was not the leader of the gang prior to their departure from Lotthingham. He has assumed a leadership position along with his sudden elevation in title, but there are some among the Corps’ ranks who don’t particularly enjoy obeying the unlikely duke. Lord Fandry is not a born leader, despite his clever business sense and endless ambition. Members of the Lowland Reclamation Corp mock and belittle Nathaniel endlessly behind his back, and many of the delays in dike construction were due to wanton disregard of the duke’s orders. 

Lotthingham Lice 
The Thestwick locals regularly decry the Lowland Reclamation Corps as parasites on their land, and there is more literal truth to this than they know. The Corps has introduced swarms of lice into the Thestwick populace. This hardy breed of urban insects has slowly been infesting nearly every resident in the fen town. Even if the duke, duchess, and Corps were to leave tomorrow, they would leave behind an outbreak that the locals have no ability to control. There are those throughout the fen who may have remedies for the lice; bog witch Anise Bloodbirch would surely have a magical balm that would eradicate the insects, and some distant fenfolk likely know of a natural treatment. Unfortunately, without a proper leadership structure in place to handle the outbreak, no one in Thestwick is making any effort to quell the spread. If no one takes action, this infestation may become uncontrollable. 

THE FANDRY WINDPUMP 
The cornerstone of the Alderham Fen reclamation is the mechanical marvel that looms over the surrounding marsh. The Fandry Windpump—so-named despite objections from Lady Mabel and the architect herself— is a surprisingly simple contraption. The reliable winds throughout the fen spin the blades which turn a series of rods and gears. At the base of the windmill, a water screw pulls water up out of the basin on which Thestwick sits. From there, the water drains west past an embankment and eventually into the ocean beyond. Once the initial drainage is complete, the windpump should function for years to come with minimal maintenance, ensuring that nearly 100,000 acres of farmable land remain free from surging floodwaters. The burdensome construction of the Fandry Windpump was the first indication that Lord Fandry’s scheme may not be so easy to complete. Wood is hard to come by in the Fen. What few trees once lived in the marsh have mostly been cut down. Lumber is scarce, and the fishing village had already exhausted much of the surrounding timber. As such, wood was slowly shipped into the village over the course of months. Project-lead Louisa Terrowin was not able to convince Lotthingham smiths and tinkerers to join her in Thestwick, so many of the gears and gizmos were constructed off-site, prompting laborious and expensive tweaks and fixes. And of course, while Thestwick locals had become expert at building and maintaining their small creekside shacks, the scale of the windpump exceeded their abilities. Eventually, however, the pump was completed and began malfunctioning immediately. Louisa’s blueprints severely underestimated the sediment in the water, leading to frequent clogs within the water screw. The wind was also never quite as reliable as she’d hoped, and without constant monitoring, a strong gust could crack a blade in a matter of seconds. Likewise, a week of minimal winds and heavy rain could undo days of work. The windpump is also surprisingly dangerous. At least three of Nathaniel’s drunken lackeys have lost fingers to the iron gears. Moorwings adore perching atop the tower, invariably ruining the hats and overcoats of any brave enough to approach the structure. Despite its faults, the Fandry Windpump is slowly but surely accomplishing its singular task. The water level across the fen is falling, and Lady Mabel is already bequeathing plots of land to her few loyal knights to farm. Assuming there are no catastrophic failures, Louisa predicts that the entire polder will be farmable in six months.

Louisa Terrowin 
The second-worst mistake Louisa (she/her) ever made was traveling to Lotthingham. The worst was telling Nathaniel her plans for the windpump. There is nobody Louisa hates more than Lord Nathaniel Fandry, Duke of the Alderham Fen. Prior to being robbed by the gang that would later become the Lowland Reclamation Corps, Louisa was a respected watchmaker, honoring commissions from many of the nobles throughout the Veglenic Kingdom. Her services were in high demand, and she was lucky enough to have the flexibility to turn down as many commissions as she accepted. Like so few in the kingdom, Louisa could enjoy hours upon hours of true, uninterrupted, leisure time. It was in these free hours that she could let her mechanically minded thoughts wander. It was in these free hours that she devised her unmaking: the “Fandry” Windpump. Louisa is a prisoner to a contract. When she and Nathaniel pitched Lady Mabel their idea to reinvent the duchy, she was simply trying to avoid the violence threatened by Nathaniel and his gang, and maybe earn some favor with the duchess. Instead, she got locked into a contract: live in Thestwick and oversee the reclamation through to its completion. Had she known the process would take so long, she would have known better than to sign the document. Unfortunately, a Veglenic watchmaker is a slave to reputation. If word were to spread that she reneged on a contract, it would severely hamper her ability to find new work throughout the kingdom. Despite her outward hostility to Nathaniel, Thestwick, and the entire project, Louisa desperately wants to see the reclamation through. Notwithstanding the misery of living in the fishing village, she’s exceedingly proud of what her contraption has already accomplished. Consequences be damned. She will drain this fen. 

Wronk: 
No one knows where Wronk (he/him) came from. The day after the windpump was completed, this big-nosed goblin just showed up, crawling around the rafters holding a small sign reading “WILL WORK FOR EELS.” Wronk claims to be a “windmill spirit,” or “kilmoulis” as they are known in certain corners of the fen. So long as Louisa keeps Wronk fed, the creature acts as a diligent worker, monitoring wind speeds, greasing the gears, and helping out with measurements. Curiously, Wronk has no mouth. Instead, he has an enormous nose through which he inhales his food. As such, Wronk can’t speak, but he gets on just fine by writing on his signpost. Despite rampant illiteracy across the fen, Wronk has an impressive capacity for language.
Wronk has an incredible work ethic, but he is loyal to Louisa and Louisa alone. As such, he scurries away into rafters whenever Nathaniel or a member of the Corps comes to check on the operation. Many around Thestwick don’t even believe Wronk exists. Despite his shyness, Wronk loves pranks. Louisa suspects he may be responsible for the loss of one or more Corps fingers— accidents that are currently attributed to drunken carelessness. 

ANISE BLOODBIRCH 
Those who whisper of dark secrets in the fen are not simply peddling superstition. There are, and always have been, strange creatures who inhabit this damp dark corner of the kingdom. Most famous of all is Anise Bloodbird (she/her), the bog witch of Thestwick. Mabel, Nathaniel, and Louisa all grew up with the threat of Anise Bloodbirch looming over them. There were dozens of variations of the fairy tale. • If you don’t finish your oats, Anise will replace your tongue with an eel. • If you never learn to read, someday you’ll make a wrong turn and end up in Anise’s bog. • If you curse your mother, Anise will come and steal your dreams. Anise Bloodbirch takes the rumors in stride. Yes, she’s a bog witch. Yes, she practices dark magic. But no, she does not have any interest in cursing children or stealing dreams. Anise has goals of her own, and while she may resort to nefarious means as necessary, she does not believe that any of her aims are wicked. Make no mistake: there are witches who delight in malice for malice’s sake. The matriarch of Anise’s coven—the witch who taught Anise everything she knows—is one such elder hag. While Anise can understand the thrill of such aimless evil, her goals are loftier. The fen has long protected Anise. Many of her sisters have fallen to urban threats; those who do not hide from cityfolk may find themselves atop a burning pyre. Out in the fen, Anise is far less concerned about close-minded bigots storming her home. That said, the endless marsh does more than just deter witch hunts. Anise’s true power comes from the nutrient-filled peat itself. Her nomadic snail Gumperham gradually crawls through the fen, munches the biome’s unique biomass, and then excretes the dense, arcane pellets known as fenbulbs. These murky orbs form the base of Anise’s witchy brews, imbuing additional ingredients with the spark needed to catalyze magical reactions. For decades, Anise had few true woes. She wandered the fen with plentiful access to her arcane fuel. She had all the time in the world to engage in her true passion: birdwatching. Unlike the other members of her coven, Anise uses 90% of her spells just to aid her hobby. She creates illusory blinds, deploys infallible tracking spells, and amplifies perfectly replicated bird calls. When she spies a particularly elusive warbler, she’ll crystalize the memory in a “vision print,” a sort of sorcerous photograph. After Thestwick Watch was erected nearly a century ago, Anise also began carefully monitoring the nutrients and acidity of the fen to make sure her new neighbors weren’t tampering with the ecosystem. For years, the fluctuations were negligible. Now that’s all starting to change. As the fen is drained, the peat withers and the birds begin looking for new homes. The Lowland Reclamation Corps is destroying everything Anise loves. While the rumors of Anise’s wickedness are fabricated, the reclusive bog witch may now need to exert her territorial authority. She will not let the duke and duchess get away with destroying the fen.

Gumperham 
Few are so lucky as Anise to have a familiar, a home, and a best friend all in one. Gumperham (he/him) is more than just a colossal snail. He has been with Anise since they were both children. Now, Gumperham is somewhere between 100 and 1,000 years old, he’s 40 feet tall, and he’s seen every corner of his lovely fen. Gumperham doesn’t speak, not even telepathically as so many witch’s familiars might. However, Gumperham is extremely expressive with his non-verbal gestures. With a solemn head bow, a curious twitch of his eyestalks, or a timid retraction into his shell, this colossal snail can convey a surprising breadth of emotions. Gumperham has simple needs. He enjoys birdwatching just as much as Anise. After all, it’s a hobby that a creature with independently moving eyestalks is predisposed to enjoy. Beyond that, he enjoys exploring the variety of different fen microbiomes, feeling the thurleigh reeds tickle his foot, and most all: devouring endlessly delicious peat. Gumperham munches the decaying biomass as though it were the nectar of the gods. Gradually, Anise has built up her home atop Gumperham’s shell. For years, she’d schlep a tent around while the two moseyed through the fen in peace. Once Gumperham became big enough, Anise simply plopped the tent atop his shell and fastened the corner with gluey bog adhesive. Next, she added a second tent so she could work in a different space from where she slept. Then she figured she might as well make the home more permanent. Now, Gumperham’s entire shell is akin to a crawling witch’s dreamhouse. Everywhere the duo goes, Anise has access to an alchemy chamber, a store of birdseed, bedchambers, a lookout, and some peat reserves for when they approach a stretch of dried-out fen. Anise would certainly never look down on her sisters who live in tiny shacks in forgotten forests… but she is quite proud of the home that she and Gumperham have built. A proper home for a proper witch. 

PLOT HOOK: CONFRONT ANISE 
Lord Nathaniel Fandry invited the party of adventurers for one reason: he wants his chosen problem solvers to ensure none of the accursed ne’er-do-wells interrupt his reclamation. He doesn’t care how they do it. The party can attempt to kill each of the marks, force them to relocate, or trick them into fighting each other. If the party feels particularly patient, they can simply keep watch indefinitely, acting as a permanent sentry outside the windpump and along the embankments. All Lord Fandry demands is the successful completion of his grand scheme, and then some assurance that the fen will stay drained. Though each of the four creatures that haunts Thestwick is of great concern to the anxious duke, Anise Bloodbirch is his top priority. She’s undoubtedly the smartest villain of the lot, and the duke is greatly concerned about the effect Gumperham is having on the residents. The giant snail is imposing, and his mere presence has led to an accelerating decline in morale. Worst of all, Lord Fandry rightly fears that Anise may be the linchpin in a collaborative effort against his operation. If Anise is able to coordinate an assault with the other creatures of the fen, Lord Fandry is almost certain that he and his crew will have to retreat back to Lotthingham.

>GM NOTE: While you should trust your players to approach their task however they see fit, there are broadly three paths they can take during their time in Thestwick. They can side with Lord Fandry and help the Lowland Reclamation Corps drain the fen, they can ally with Anise to create a coalition to rout out the humans, or they can help the locals to take back their town from the duke. The plot hooks of each borough guide for Thestwick will present relevant information for these three approaches, but it is worth keeping in mind that there are countless variations on how your players might decide to proceed. 

Anise’s Aims 
Anise and Gumperham have relocated to Thestwick-on-Alderham, but they haven’t yet begun to disrupt the activities of the Lowland Reclamation Corps. Currently, their highest priority is likely the same as that of the party: reconnaissance and fact-finding. Anise is an expert scout, and she’s employing her birdwatching prowess to keep tabs on the town. Before attempting anything drastic, Anise is spending her days spying on Lord Fandry and Louisa Terrowin, analyzing the fen waters, and sneaking into the village in various illusory disguises. She wants to make sure she understands exactly what’s going on before making her move. Though Anise could theoretically burn the windpump to the ground in the middle of the night, that would only be a short-term solution. It would also be needlessly dangerous, and she might end up killed in the retaliation. Instead, Anise wants to find a way to rid Thestwick of all of its human residents altogether… even the locals who have been there for decades. That could mean turning all the villagers into frogs, or it could just mean convincing them all to leave. Anise isn’t picky, but she does recognize that time is running short. Regardless of what she decides, Anise believes her best shot at ridding her home of its destroyers would be to ally with the other oft-maligned creatures of the fen: Black Alfie the ghost dog, Bulgreck the cave troll, and Sin Ranulf the bloodthirsty revenant. Despite the bountiful folk tales of each of these beings and their relative proximity, Anise has never met any of them. After all, she and Gumperham tend to keep to themselves. Given the desperate situation, however, Anise feels it may be worth quickly making introductions and subsequently joining forces. 

Approach Anise Whether the adventurers wish to work with Anise or dispose of her, the party will first have to actually find her. To do so, they can either infiltrate her home—a feat made difficult by the wary and watchful Gumperham—or else find her while she’s clandestinely navigating the village. 

Infiltrate the Snail Home 
The first impediment adventurers will face while conducting a home invasion is Gumperham himself. He may not be able to talk, but he is intelligent and perceptive. Given his sensitive foot and antennae, he may be able to notice the adventurers trudging through the lowlands even if he can’t directly see them. If the party is able to give Gumperham the slip, they will then have to figure out a means to get up into Anise’s home. The witch herself has numerous rope ladders she can use to climb up into the structure without bothering Gumperham, but she can also cause these to deploy or retract with a simple incantation. The players likely won’t be so lucky. They will have to either boulder up Gumperham’s shell—invariably grabbing his attention in the process—or else bring their own ladder, pole, or magic spell. Once inside, Anise’s home is only minimally booby-trapped. Most of her defenses are magic alarms, or even cruder techniques. Her most successful trap—in terms of total intrusions foiled—is a bucket of bog water balanced atop a door frame. Anise knows she’s playing with fire simply by parking Gumperham so close to town. She is prepared, but she also isn’t about to blow some intruder to smithereens simply for trying to sneak around her home. The biggest challenges for adventurers who attempt to break and enter into Anise’s home will be navigation and quelling their own curiosity. The witch’s complex is large, and while the party attempts to get their bearings, Anise will no doubt be planning countermeasures. Plus, the adventurers may want to inspect any number of magical doodads, or the highly reactive fenbulbs themselves. All but the most experienced spellcasters may inadvertently trigger an arcane mishap through their own ignorance and clumsiness.

Spot Anise in Thestwick 
As soon as Anise and Gumperham made their way to the village, Anise began sneaking about. Often donning the visage of a villager, she discreetly skulks about while trying to learn the ins and outs of the operation. Depending on how long the party waits before trying to confront her, she may have learned any of the following: 1. Lord and Lady Fandry have crippling marriage problems. 2. The reclamation can be undone by destroying the embankments. 3. The windpump is a functional but flawed construction. 4. Louisa Terrowin hates Lord Fandry but wants to see the project through anyway. 5. Many individual members of the Lowland Reclamation Corps secretly mock Lord Fandry. 6. The locals are hatching their own scheme to sabotage the operation. 7. The windpump will need to operate in perpetuity to keep the fen dry. 8. Lord Fandry has plans to march the Alderham knights into Talmouth. If the party would rather not invade her mysterious and intimidating snail home, they can attempt to intercept her while she is making her way through town. Crucially, the party will first have to come to the conclusion that Anise has in fact been walking amongst the villagers. No one else has yet realized. This may be accomplished through day-and-night surveillance, although the mists of the fen tend to play tricks on those unused to such thick morning fog. Anise will always make her entrances and exits under the cover of night or during periods of all-obscuring mist. Seeing through Anise’s disguise will require either excellent perception or deduction. Her “masks” (as she calls them) aren’t foolproof, and if the adventurers take stock of everyone in town, they may be able to spot the duplicate. Short of seeing through the illusions, the adventurers may have to infer from evidence who Anise might be: the knight who keeps walking past the door to the windpump, the old lady who can’t keep her eyes off the moorwings, or the gentleman with mysteriously wet trousers. 

Deal with Anise 
Once the players are able to track down Anise, they will have to decide what to do with her. Lord Fandry would be most pleased if they could simply fell the wicked witch, but he will also happily accept any solution that rids her from Thestwick altogether. Of course, the adventurers may see eye-to-eye with Anise, and if they’re particularly persuasive, the witch of Alderham Fen could be convinced to collaborate. 

Kill Anise 
Anise is old, but she is not immortal. Through potent elixirs and the aid of her coven, Anise has been able to indefinitely extend her lifespan, but she will not survive a sword through the heart. Nevertheless, landing that killing blow will not be easy. Anise is a master of disguises, illusions, and—if need be—transformation. While she may hate to interfere with the local ecosystem, she will not hesitate to turn an assailant into a frog. Anise is also scrappy. If the adventurers attack from one of the more precarious rooms in her snail home, she’ll retreat further into her lair before detaching the dangling structure, dropping the party 40 feet down into the fen. She’ll toss fenbulbs at her assailants, knowing that the volatile alchemical reagents are likely to maim the untrained attackers. If all else fails, she’ll flee to her cauldron, from which she’ll produce dark spirits to haunt and harry any who approach. If the party can overcome all of Anise’s attacks and defenses, she will not grovel and she will not bargain. She will accept her death. With her final breath, she will do everything in her power to curse her attackers, finally committing the evil of which she has been so often wrongly accused. 

Spare Anise 
It is far easier to kill Anise than it is to convince her to stand down. She has two loves in her life: Gumperham and the fen. If the party wants any hope of appeasing Lord Fandry without resorting to murder, they will have to cater their arguments, threats, or promises accordingly. Should the party choose to be maximally diabolical, they will threaten Gumperham. Anise wants nothing more than to return to a life of nomadic leisure with her best friend, even if that means finding a new environment to call home. If the adventurers pledge violence against Gumperham, they will have exceptional leverage over Anise. Of course, promising to kill a mammoth snail is a risky gambit. Should the adventurers make such a declaration, they may find Anise or even Gumperham himself resorting to lethal force out of desperation. If Anise believes she would lose such a fight, however, she will be keen to negotiate. The other option is to turn the tables on Anise and promise no harm will come to the fen. This will be even more difficult. Anise wants to save the fen herself. She is both determined and overconfident in this regard. She may find it hard to believe if the players suggest that a ragtag group of seeming mercenaries such as themselves have the fen’s best interest at heart. Nevertheless, she may be convinced to leave Thestwick should the party make a compelling case that they are the ones most capable of preserving the fen. 

Side with Anise 
If Lord Fandry has his way, the fen will change drastically in ways that he cannot foresee. Yes, many wealthy subjects will gain land to farm, but countless fenfolk will be forced to abandon their centuries-old way of life. A rich ecosystem of birds, reeds, eels, and shellfish will be devastated. There will be countless unpredictable ripple effects as the dried fen reveals secrets that are better left preserved in the peat. Perhaps the adventurers feel as though the acres and acres of newly arable farmland are worth these sacrifices. Alternatively, they may agree with Anise Bloodbirch: something has to be done. Anise has not cooperated or colluded with anyone but her coven and her snail for centuries. As such, the adventurers will have to painstakingly gain the witch’s trust. She may ask them to willingly accept a minor hex, or she may give them a gruesome task to complete to prove their commitment. In either case, Anise won’t simply bring them into the fold because of their honeyed words. If the party is able to successfully convince Anise that their aims are compatible, they will still have the challenge of colluding with the witch without drawing the ire of the townsfolk. The party will have to work with incredible secrecy to make sure they don’t arouse suspicion. Anise’s major task for the party will be to do what she has thus far been putting off: forging an alliance between the non-human entities in Thestwick. Anise will tell the party what little she knows of Black Alfie, Bulgreck, and Sir Ranulf, and she will give them any supplies and magical aids they may require, but she can do little else. In the meantime, Anise will scheme about how best to ensure that a potential victory over the duke and his gang of bullies is not short-lived. 

>WHAT DO THE LOCALS WANT? The moorwing eelers and thatching artisans who call Thestwick-on-Alderham home have their own plans for the village. They have been meeting in secret, attempting to form a last-ditch plan to rid their town of the Lowland Reclamation Corps for good. If the party wants to help the locals in their goal, it may be advantageous to encourage an alliance between Anise and the Thestwick residents. This will be a tough sell for the locals, however, as they fear the bog witch more than any. As far as the “haunted fen” goes, the locals feel surprisingly similarly to Lord Fandry. They want the monsters gone just as much as the duke and duchess. Their end goal is to take the village back for themselves, not to affiliate with dark magicians and undead soldiers. Regardless, the full nature of the locals’ plan will be explored in a future chapter.


The Old Ways 
OF KNIGHTS AND FENFOLK 
The local population of Thestwick—that is, those who lived in the village before Lord and Lady Fandry arrived—are born of two worlds. The village was originally founded by former knights who opted to stay in the fen after the peaceful resolution of the border conflict. It wasn’t long before some of the native fenfolk began traveling to the village. Never before had the people of Alderham Fen established such a centralized and permanent community in the lowlands. The few who already lived solitary lives in the backwaters were happy to trade with the new residents and share strategies for living in the unforgiving terrain. A few generations later, most newborns in Thestwick share blood of the knights who first populated Thestwick Watch as well as the indigenous fenfolk who had always called the wetlands their home. These days, few care terribly about distant family trees. The residents of Thestwick are their own people. Most consider themselves true “fenfolk,” if only for semantic convenience: that is, they are folk who live in the fen. Culturally, however, they are distinct from those who live out in the wilds, free from the minor amenities that Thestwick-on-Alderham provides. Though all residents of Thestwick must technically swear fealty to the duke and duchess, they are almost entirely autonomous, relying little on trade with distant Lotthingham. 

MOORWING EELERS 
Even before the Lowland Reclamation Corps began reshaping the fen, life for those in Thestwick was not easy. Disease is common in the fen, food is hard to accumulate or store, and gathering fuel for cooking and heating is an arduous task. Traditional farming is not an option, and few trees grow in the vast expanse of marsh. The original knights of Thestwick Watch had the luxury of occasional supply drops filled with hardtack and cured meat. The end of the armed conflict was also the end of regular support from Lotthingham. Thankfully, these first residents of Thestwick learned quickly from the native fenfolk how to hunt the endless varieties of eels native to the Aldherman waterways. The native moorwings—inland relatives of the cormorants found on the Veglenic Kingdom’s coasts— are excellent hunters. These broad-winged water birds evolved specifically to spot and catch the eels that call the fen their home. The knights of Thestwick Watch first tried to catch eels with poles and bait, but the clever fish are far trickier than their counterparts in the lakes, streams, and ponds adjacent to Lotthingham. The fenfolk showed the first residents of Thestwick that the only way to reliably land the slithery creatures was to deploy the local fauna against them. Moorwings can easily catch eels, but they rely on their elastic necks to swallow the creatures. By tying a loose snare around the moorwing’s neck, eelers can ensure that the moorwing will be unable to actually consume the eels they catch. With enough training, a moorwing can be taught to grab an eel, return to their owner’s canoe, and then deposit the eel in exchange for some smaller shellfish that can fit down their ensnared neck. Additionally, eelers enforce a strict code of reciprocity: for each 5 eels the moorwing catches, they can eat one themselves

>THE ETHICS OF EELING 
When the duke, duchess, and Lowland Reclamation Corps arrived, they decried moorwing eeling as barbaric, but the eelers see it differently. The moorwing still gets food, and the eelers are able to feed the people of their village. What’s more, the residents of Thestwick don’t need to spend hours reeling in and tossing back the numerous species of inedible fish that make up most of the aquatic life in the waters. And most importantly: they can live out in the backwaters without transforming the entire ecosystem into acres of monoculture farmland. A snare on a neck seems at the very least comparable to the yoke on an ox or the blinders on a carriage horse. Would the duke and duchess object to the use of all draft animals? These arguments are still insufficient for many Lotthingham nobles. Those unfamiliar with the realities of farming struggle with the mental gymnastics required to justify the practice. The people of Thestwick pride themselves on living in harmony with their environment, and yet they shackle the fen’s creatures for their own gain. Is that hypocrisy? An act of wanton cruelty? Or merely a necessary compromise? 

Thestwick’s eelers tend to gain a strong kinship with their moorwings. While most young eelers affix long leashes to their moorwings, a seasoned fisherman will abandon the leash altogether after gaining the trust of their birds. The moorwing knows that food awaits them back on their keeper’s canoe, including delicious fen snails that they cannot eat without the aid of humans to shell the creatures. Once an eeler has developed a particularly close relationship with a moorwing, it’s rare to see them go anywhere separately. An eeler will walk about town with their bird atop their shoulder, and a particularly affectionate eeler might even help their moorwing build a nest atop or adjacent to their home.

- table
d6 Types of Eels Description 1 Common Veglenic Eel The most abundant eel in the Alderham Fen, growing up to 2 feet long. A nocturnal predator that eats spiders and small frogs. Typically jellied and then eaten cold. 2 Twin-Headed Snap Jaw A curious two-headed eel. Comparatively inefficient hunters, each head spends much of its time biting the other. Though tough and flavorless, it is fenfolk tradition for newly married couples to split a snap jaw on their wedding night. 3 Freshwater Sparkler The freshwater sparkler is the only species of electric eel found in the Alderham Fen. Fenfolk have repeatedly attempted to domesticate freshwater sparklers to hunt other eels, but none have yet succeeded. Anyone foolish enough to trudge through the fen in metal armor should be wary of these otherwise innocuous predators. 4 Chasling Honkbogey There is nothing actually dangerous about a honkbogey, but they’re reviled anyway. While hunting in packs, they will occasionally turn completely rigid, surface, and loudly croak for up to ten minutes. This makes them easy to catch, even without a moorwing, but it’s particularly obnoxious. 5 Mudshells A chemical on the scales of a mudshell causes the fen sediment to adhere and harden around the eel. The result is a sort of carapace that protects the creature from predators. Mudshells are delicious when fried, but notoriously difficult to catch. 6 Darkdiver The largest eel in the Alderham Fen is also the most unusual. The darkdiver is predatory, up to 8 feet long, and capable of mimicking the traits of creatures it bites. When a darkdiver nicks an adventurer with its arrow-like jaw, it magically adopts one or more of its prey’s adaptations: the superior sight of a ranger, divine blood of a paladin, or arcane defenses of a witch.


The Eeler Way of Life 
A young eeler is expected to build their own canoe and paddle from what little wood they can find in the fen. In fact, canoes and paddles are some of the only acceptable uses for the few trees that grow in the fen. Wood is so scarce that residents of Thestwick are strictly forbidden from using wood for fires or roofs. The construction of the Fandry Windpump was thus a huge point of contention for the locals. The Lowland Reclamation Corps chopped down dozens of trees that the young eelers were hoping to use for their own canoes when they came of age. Eelers are almost always men. Thestwick residents consider themselves morally superior to their kin in distant cities, but they’ve retained many of the patriarchal cultural touchstones of their urban ancestors. There have been a handful of female eelers, but they are never fully accepted or respected by the men that rule the waters. There is little in the way of hierarchy for eelers. There is no leadership structure. Once an eeler has built their canoe, they are welcomed into the moorwing aviary to find a suitable fishing partner. There are accepted codes of conduct, but nothing resembling the strictly codified bylaws of the various guilds in Lotthinghham. Instead, becoming an eeler is a matter of undergoing a series of rites: build a canoe, choose a moorwing, abandon the leash, catch a mudshell, etc. Traditions are passed down orally and evolve gradually over time. Of course, the entire eeler way of life is now in jeopardy. As the water level of the fen continues to fall, the only reliable fishing waters are those of Alderham Creek. Gone are the days when eelers could travel in any direction with some canoeing prowess and careful navigation. Eel habitats are drying up, and consequently moorwings populations are falling precipitously. The people of Alderham Fen will—supposedly!—thrive with their acres and acres of new farmland, but it seems no one in Lotthingham is concerned that the centuries-old practice of moorwing eeling will fade into distant memory. Lloyd Maddox: Given the mixed heritages of virtually all of Thestwick’s residents, it is surprising that some locals still cling to ancient prejudices. Lloyd (he/ him) prides himself on having no fenfolk blood in his ancestry. He carries the noble blood of the Alderham knights through and through. And yet, Lloyd lives out in the fen. He’s an eeler, practicing a fishing tradition that the fenfolk have honed over the centuries. His neighbors, his eeler kin, and everyone he knows is either part fenfolk or thriving thanks to the fenfolk ingenuity. The residents of Thestwick have no patience for Lloyd’s intolerance. Prior to the construction of the windpump, the locals were planning to exile Lloyd, but now that the town itself is at risk, the residents have more pressing concerns. For now, Lloyd is doing everything he can to cozy up with the Lowland Reclamation Corps while fulfilling his eeling duties. 

The Moorwing Aviary 
Young eelers are expected to build their own canoes before heading out on the water, but they aren’t expected to catch a moorwing by themselves. Thestwick’s aviculturists maintain a steady gulp of at least twenty yet unclaimed moorwings at any given time. Keeping these birds happy and healthy is a challenge in and of itself. For fear of overfishing the waters, the captive moorwings are forbidden from seeking out their own food. Instead, their keepers feed them an exceedingly labor-intensive diet of shelled snails. Whenever on the water, eelers will keep their eyes peeled for these delectable snails, which tend to travel in large groups. The Lowland Reclamation Corps have had free reign over the city throughout the duration of their stay. The locals have been insistent, however, that no outsiders step foot in the aviary. This bird reserve is Thestwick’s equivalent of a central bank. It ensures the long-term stability of the town. If a few eelers pass away suddenly, a new generation can rapidly train with healthy moorwings to keep the town fed. If anything were to happen to the aviary, Thestwick’s future would be in jeopardy. Of course, that very future is already in question if the duke and duchess have their way. Bronwen Taphis: While many of Thestwick’s essential facilities are led by senior members of the community, the head aviculturist at the moorwing aviary is 15-year-old Bronwen Taphis (she/her). Caring for the moorwings is an intricate task. While everyone in Thestwick wishes the village could stockpile more snails to feed the fledgelings, the harsh reality is that there are always limited stores of the precious bird food. Bronwen has a gift for rationing, for reading the birds’ needs, and for keeping precise records. No bird goes hungry in her aviary, and each is cared for with admirable love and affection. Bronwen is given total autonomy, and many who assist her in the aviary are at least twice her age. Some resent the young “bird expert,” but most are happy that the village’s most previous resources are given the care and attention they deserve. 

RHETT NESLING AND THE THESTWICK RESISTANCE 
For years, Rhett (he/him) was one of the quiet ones. He enjoyed life in Thestwick because it asked little more of him than caring for his birds, fishing all day, and helping his wife Carys with childcare and cooking. Bright and early, he’d head out on the water, read the clouds for shifting weather, and trust in his moorwings to help him find food for his family. Even when the other eelers would get drunk and rowdy after a successful day on the water, Rhett would typically just head home. That all changed once the fen began to drain. Rhett now leads the internal resistance. The eelers of Thestwick-on-Alderham want to take their fen back, and they know they must act soon. Though Rhett had barely known many of the other eelers prior to the construction of the windpump, he now leads secret meetings with the fervor of a raving prophet. Rhett wants his home back. He wants his sons to grow up to be happy eelers. He desperately wants the clueless knights who plan to farm this drained basin to stay where they belong back in Lotthingham. Rhett is done being quiet, and he is preparing at last to act. First, Rhett and his allies (roughly a dozen other eelers, or one-third of the total eeler population) must decide their plan of action. Anything they do to keep their fen free from meddling will have to address both the water level and the far-reaching ambitions of the duke and duchess. Yes they could simply sabotage one or more embankments, but that is at best a temporary solution. The windpump is surprisingly efficient. As soon as the water starts flooding back in, the Lowland Reclamation Corps will patch up the dike, and the fen will be re-drained quickly. If the rebellious Thestwick natives repeatedly attempt to sabotage the polder infrastructure, they will likely be hanged.

Arguments Against the Reclamation 
A more permanent solution for Thestwick residents hoping to maintain their way of life will involve forcing the duke and duchess to stop meddling with the fen for good. To do this, Rhett and his eeler brethren will have to convince the duke and duchess—and ideally, their inevitable successors—that their plan is either counterproductive or too risky. Unfortunately, the lords of Alderham Fen aren’t as persuaded by “the majesty of the wetlands” or “the sanctity of peaceful fen life” as the eelers are. Rhett and co. will need to learn to speak the language of money and power. One potential line of reasoning they can wield is that the land beneath the marshes may be unfit for farming. This is probably not true, but even Lord Fandry himself would admit that the whole production has been an awful lot of work given the degree of uncertainty in his plans. It’s possible that the whole fen will have to lie fallow for years or decades before it will yield a plentiful harvest. Again: there is no evidence that this is the case, but if Lord Fandry could be convinced that it’s the truth, one more mechanical setback may be all it takes for him to abandon the project altogether. Another potential argument is that the fen serves a purpose that is more valuable than any potential farmland. The fen has always acted as a massive buffer against marching armies. So long as invading troops are forced to trudge through miles upon miles of dangerous boggy terrain, it is unlikely Lotthingham will ever be attacked from the south. Of course, that is one of the reasons why the prior border skirmish ended in a stalemate: the Duke of Talmouth realized there was no hope of annexing even an acre of land if it meant fighting Alderham troops across fetid wetlands. 

>LORD FANDRY’S AMBITIONS Though it sounds like a good argument, Lord Nathaniel Fandry is unlikely to be swayed by the tactical value of his duchy’s wetlands for one simple reason: they are a hindrance to his actual plans. Yes, Lord Fandry does want to turn his territory into workable farmland, but he also plans to turn the tables on Talmouth, march his knights south across the newly traversable terrain, and sweep across the neighboring duchy in a surprise onslaught.

>If Rhett and any allied adventurers attempt to persuade Lord Fandry of the importance of an environmental buffer against invading forces, the duke will nod coyly, but he will change his mind, and he will do his best to keep his cards close to the chest. The residents of Thestwick are already unhappy with Lord Fandry, and if he reveals that his full force of knights will soon be marching through their town en route to war, the locals may become dangerously incensed. 

Perhaps the best argument in favor of leaving the fen alone is one of pragmatism. Defending the fulllength of the embankment against vandals will be expensive and risky, and a single point of failure could cause dangerous flooding for anyone farming the reclaimed land. Even without ne’er-do-wells interfering with the infrastructure, calamitous weather could result in storm surges overtaking the dikes. More land could act as a useful economic incentive for the dukedom’s knights, but it also seems likely that a torrent of prospectors would move into the territory before the lords have the chance to adequately divvy up the parcels. The knights will be stretched thin just guarding the embankment, and with miles and miles of newly habitable land to protect, the already perilous guard force would teeter on a knife’s edge. The reclamation is ambitious, and if all goes according to plan, the Alderham Fen will dramatically expand their arable farmland. However, expanding so quickly brings with it considerable risks: military invasion, secession, and the unavoidable risk of flood surges. 

Killing the Duke 
Rhett and his companions are not stupid. They know that Lord Fandry is the linchpin in this operation. If he were to be removed from the calculation, would that be the end of the Lowland Reclamation Corps? The answer is complicated. Lord Fandry and his strategic marriage helped make architect Louisa Terrowin’s blueprints a reality, and the duke’s cronies are ultimately the primary labor force behind the project. Yet, the wheels are already in motion. If Lord Fandry were assassinated tomorrow, it’s not clear that enthusiasm for the reclamation would suddenly dry up. Lady Fandry knows the potential value of this farmland, and she seems committed to seeing this project through. The Lowland Reclamation Corps is another story. Without Lord Fandry corralling the drunken boors, they may give up on the reclamation, or they may simply fall into disarray. To ensure this does not happen, Lady Fandry may simply marry one of Nathaniel’s cronies to ensure the Corps sticks around to finish the job. Miserable Louisa—for all of her complaining—is wholly dedicated to proving the effectiveness of her windpump. With the duchess, the architect and the labor force on board, simply killing the duke is unlikely to save the fen for Thestwick’s residents. 

>ACCESSORY TO THE CRIME If Lord Fandry were to be suddenly eliminated, Lady Fandry would be glad… In fact, it is possible that she could be convinced to help facilitate a clandestine assassination. If Lady Fandry received assurances that she would be held blameless, she might lean into her alleged “curse” and bring some more misery to the most important man in her life. Lady Fandry does not like her husband, and a mysterious death out in the fen would be easily hidden from her vassals back in Lotthingham. The body could be disposed of, and that would be that. Lady Mabel Fandry could revitalize her duchy and get rid of her detestable husband in one fell swoop. 


THE THESTIWCK BONE MILL 
When the reclamation is finally complete, the duke and duchess hope to get the farmland in working condition as soon as possible. While they suspect that the moist fen soil will be ideal for farming, they also plan to provide ample fertilizer to anyone in need. To facilitate this process, the Lowland Reclamation Corps was ordered to build a bone mill on a minor offshoot of Alderham Creek. Ever since construction began, the residents of Thestwick have been required to keep their leftover eel bones, dry them, and provide sackfuls to the Lord and Lady. These are subsequently pulverized by the mill’s bone crusher to produce gritty fertilizer. The Corps erected the bone mill quickly and easily. They were, of course, aided with blueprints by the one and only Louisa Terrowin. Early experiments proved quite successful. The eel bones were easily smashed, and basic tests in flower pots indicate that the fertilizer should serve its purpose.
Unfortunately, the Thestwick Bone Mill was suddenly abandoned after the first few ventures. Two members of the Corps were instructed to take a shift at the Bone Mill one afternoon, and after neither returned, Lord Fandry himself went to check on the operation. He found both bodies mangled beyond recognition, torn to bits by some horrible beast. After reporting back to the people of Thestwick, everyone knew exactly what had happened: Black Alfie had found the poor souls. 

BLACK ALFIE 
The first residents to develop Thestwick were the Alderham knights who chose to stay in the fen after the end of their border dispute. These knights had some experience living in the fen; they had at least spent a year or so in Thestwick Watch. Nevertheless, life inside a sentry tower is decidedly different from life in the open fen. Many of these knights tried to treat the town as though it were any other small hamlet a few miles outside of Lotthingham. As charming and peaceful as Thestwick may be, it is not a place where one can simply live passively. The marsh holds dangers, and carelessness can be fatal. One young squire learned this the hard way. Thomas Nickelby was walking with his dog along the early scaffolding for the town to be when he fell into the waters below. Normally, this would be startling but of no real concern. Thomas, however, was staggeringly drunk. He struggled in vain while his pet dog Alfie barked in horror. Thomas drowned in the fen. The fenfolk have very simple burial traditions. Corpses are placed on floating wooden platforms, and left to drift wherever the marsh waters take them. In most instances, the bodies are picked clean by moorwings before the next dawn. When someone drowns however, the body is to be left in place. Superstition holds that spirits haunt the waters, and tampering with a drowned body can release those spirits. As such, Thomas’s body was left to sit in the thick peat in which it came to rest. Alfie, Thomas’s loyal companion, returned to his meager dog house on a small hill rising up over the marsh. He waited faithfully day after day, then week after week, for his master to return. Locals brought Alfie food, hoping to coax the dog back into town, but Alfie never ate. The townsfolk suspected that Aflie died, but they never found his body. Some claim to see the spectral image of Alfie on moonlit nights. If the legends are to be believed, Alfie— or “Black Alfie” (he/him) as the locals call the ghostly shade—protects his master’s eternal sleep

PLOT HOOK: CONFRONT BLACK AFIE 
Lord Fandry is terrified of the prospect of some sort of century-old haunted dog ghost interfering with his schemes. Whether it’s true, some trick of bog witch Anise’s making, or pure superstition, anything that gets in the way of his reclamation needs to be smoothed over as soon as possible. Lord Fandry will ask the party to investigate tales of this mysterious mutt, and, if needed, dispatch him. 

Black Alfie’s Aims 
Alfie’s spirit is restless. He watched his master Thomas drunkenly struggle in the unforgiving fen waters, the worst sight a happy dog can witness. What’s worse, Thomas was barely a Thestwick resident. While the locals honored the burial traditions of the fenfolk by allowing Thomas's body to rot and fester in the murky waters, Thomas’s family mourned that they could not give him the Veglenic funeral pyre he would have wanted. Alfie, of course, could not fully process the nuance of this torment, but he sensed great pain from his master’s family. Now that the fen is drying up, it’s only a matter of time before Thomas’s remains resurface. A peculiar side effect of the fen’s peat is that bodies that eventually sink are perfectly preserved. As such, a century’s worth of decay will have had almost no effect on Thomas’s body, frozen in time the day he died. Black Alfie wants nothing more than for Thomas’s body to be given the true funeral pyre it deserves. Instead, it seems increasingly likely that the body will soon resurface as the beat dries out, and that it will be left to rot in the Alderham sun. At some basic level, Alfie understands this, and he hates it. 

Approach Black Alfie 
As Alfie died, he spent his last remaining energy digging out a truly massive burrow deep into the earth beneath his dog house. There is no rational justification for the size of the dugout Alfie was able to carve in his final days. Perhaps supercharged by the agony of loss, the mourning dog was able to perform unfathomable feats of strength and endurance, creating a subterranean monument to his woes. Black Alfie’s spectral form now wanders this dark cave, eternally wailing out for Thomas. Adventurers seeking the canine spirit will have to crawl through the hole beneath his dog house and into the dark lair. Alternatively, it just so happens that the Thestwick Bone Mill sits directly on top of this haunted warren. It seems likely that Black Alfie killed the two members of the Lowland Reclamation Corps specifically because they intruded on his den. Adventurers who seek out the bone mill first may be able to find a path down into the cave from above. 

Deal with Black Alfie 
Handling an allegedly wicked witch is one thing. Confronting a restless spirit is quite another. As with Anise, Lord Fandry does not care how the party dispatches Black Alfie. So long as the adventurers can ensure the spirit won’t interfere with the reclamation, Lord Fandry will consider it a job well done. Of course, the adventurers may have different aims altogether. If they previously decided to side with Anise or the Thestwick locals, they may instead choose to weaponize Black Alfie against the duke, duchess, and Lowland Reclamation Corps. 

Bring Peace to Black Alfie 
The selfless approach is to put Black Alfie’s soul to rest. The poor dog just wants his master to receive traditional Veglenic funeral rites. Accomplishing this task, however, will be anything but straightforward. The party will have to first uncover the legend of Black Alfie, then ascertain Black Alfie’s wishes, then find Thomas’s body somewhere in the peat, and then finally find somewhere to burn the preserved corpse. Learning the legend will be relatively easy, but it requires the party to actually do some common sense fact-finding before going off in search of the ghost. Most residents know the story, but they won’t just offer the information up unprompted. Learning what Black Alfie wants will be trickier. A séance is a good place to start, and Anise Bloodbirch might be convinced to help. However, Anise does not want Black Alfie’s soul at rest, at least not yet. If the bog witch suspects that the party will try to eliminate her trump card, she will cease aiding them in their task. Finding Thomas’s body will be particularly challenging. As the fen dries up, the party will end up finding quite a few bodies in the all-preserving peat. The party can either attempt to divine Thomas’s location, consult decades old records, or confer with Black Alfie himself. If the party can gain the spirit's trust, he may join them in one final trek across the marsh in search of his master’s corpse.

>GM Note: This quest will be much easier to GM if Black Alfie can at least understand some basic language. If you really want to up the roleplaying, you can have the dog actually speak, but this seems a bit at odds with the natures of a dog ghost. Instead, have Black Alfie respond to simple commands. 

Weaponize Black Alfie 
Anise Bloodbirch will suggest that the party try to get Black Alfie on her side. Practically speaking, that just means giving the spirit the motivation he needs to terrorize the village. If Black Alfie were to somehow understand that it’s the Lowland Reclamation Corps who are responsible for gradually exhuming Thomas’s corpse, he will be incensed enough to target the town. Once Black Alfie gains the necessary bloodlust, the only thing keeping him from terrorizing the people of Thestwick is his fear of Alderham Creek. He watched his master drown in these dangerous waters, and so being within sight of the creek strikes fear into the dog. This may offer some clues as to why Black Alfie carved out an underground lair for himself instead of stalking the fens like the other strange beasts of Thestwick. If Black Alfie were able to overcome his fear, or if the water were drained completely, he would be free to wreak havoc. 

Dispatch Black Alfie 
If the party cannot determine how to either release Black Alfie from eternal torment or instead turn the dark spirit against the town, their third option is to somehow “defeat” the spirit. Again, the trick here is the creek itself. Black Alfie is terrified of the fen’s waters. Flooding his cavernous home will cause the spirit to flee. If the party really wants to tortue the poor spirit, bathing in the fen’s water before confronting him may trick Black Alfie into believing his master has returned for the sake of torment. No matter what, Black Alfie is a restless spirit. Short of completing the task that haunts him, the spirit won’t simply move on. So long as Thomas’s body rests in the bog, Black Alfie is here to stay. The next best thing Lord Fandry can hope for is that the spirit is sent far, far away from his operation.

Reeds And Peat 
THURLEIGH REEDS 
Trees are scarce in the fen. The marshy landscape is unkind to all known varieties of timber throughout the Veglenic Kingdom. Instead, the fen is a seemingly endless expanse of winding waterways, haunting gray skies, and the endemic thurleigh reeds. These hardy marsh grasses are considered a nuisance by the largely male cohort of moorwing eelers. As they paddle their canoes through the winding creeks, they often scratch their hands and forearms on the abrasive reeds. It is the women of Thestwick who have become the masters of the reeds. Thurleigh reeds are crucial to life on the fen. With proper processing, they can be used for everything from roofing, to clothing, parchment, and even music instruments. With so few natural resources to rely on in the fen, Thestwick’s craftswomen have learned how to take advantage of everything they can. The primary use of thurleigh reeds is in thatching. The thatched roof homes of Thestwick are surprisingly durable, and they make for great insulators during the harsh Alderham winters. To the surprise of many cityfolk, a properly installed thatched roof can last 20 or 30 years before it needs to be replaced. Much of the clothing worn by Thestwick’s residents is also made from reeds. The process of making anything remotely comfortable is quite labor-intensive. The reeds need to be painstakingly “massaged” with thick gloves to remove the scratchy burs. Clothiers can either make thick coats with these newly relaxed reeds, or else extract the softer fibers by retting the reeds in the marsh. Some Thestwick residents will trade for wool with the few fenfolk able to raise sheep, but most wear itchy reed clothing with at most one or two softer shirts. The craftswomen have found additional creative uses for the reeds, though they still use the vast majority of harvested marsh grasses for roofing and clothing. Dedicated artisans are able to make baskets, pens, and parchment, and a select few luthiers make idiosyncratic instruments. The “sywod shawm” is made from hollowed out eel bone with a double-reed mouthpiece. These grating woodwinds are exceptionally difficult to tune, and performances are typically unaccompanied. 

CATRYN AND HATTIE HOWELL 
Thestwick mothers take great pride in teaching their daughters the trades of the fen. There’s always a celebration when a young Thestwick girls first learns to make her own skirts and tunics from the native reeds. 70-year-old Catryn Howell (she/her) had the chance to teach her own daughter Meredith to work with reeds, and now, after Meredith’s sudden death, Catryn gets the opportunity to teach her granddaughter Hattie (she/her) as well. Catryn is among the oldest Thestwick residents. Her grandfather had been one of the original knights overseeing Thestwick Watch. Now, she trembles as she imagines the inevitable bleak future that her town and her grandchildren face. In the meantime, there is little Catryn can do except pass down her expertise to the younger generation. Though much of her work seems simple, there is a complex art to working with reeds: the exact twisting motion that most efficiently removes burs, the patterns for optimal thatching, and easily missed signals that retting is complete. Young Hattie is happy to work with her grandmother, though times have been tough since her parents passed away. The older eelers have helped Hattie and Catryn by providing the family with enough food to live on, but there is an expectation that Hattie’s younger brother Martyn should soon be supporting his family. That prospect is looking increasingly grim as even the experienced eelers struggle to fish the receding waters.
While Catryn frets over what she can do to help future generations, young Hattie is taking matters into her own hands. At night, she sneaks out of her home, slinks over to Gumperham the giant snail, and spies on bog witch Anise Bloodbirch. Rhett Nesling and his ill-fated resistance aren’t going to save the town. Only magic can. Hattie suspects that Anise knows she’s being watched; the witch has even begun to explicitly narrate her alchemy, perhaps in an effort to surreptitiously teach the snooping youngster. Should Hattie master some of the witch’s dark secrets, she will bravely exercise her newfound abilities in an attempt to defeat the true villains of the fen: Lord and Lady Fandry, and that sycophant Louisa Terrowin. Unbeknownst to the youngster, grandmother Catryn knows exactly what Hattie is doing. It may as well be a family tradition at this point. Catryn learned much from the witch of the Alderham Fen in her own youth. She hasn’t dabbled in these dark arts for many years, but perhaps it is time Catryn guided her granddaughter in the careful practice of witchcraft. 

>GM Note: Catryn and Hattie are good NPCs to plop into whatever workshop your players feel like exploring. Catryn knows plenty about the city’s past—about Thestwick Watch, Sir Ranulf, and the legend of Black Alfie—and Hattie will likely be unable to keep the secrets she’s gleaned from Anise Bloodbirch. If anyone is going to spill some gossip or share some magical gifts, it will be this unusual duo. If the players can suss out that both Catryn and Hattie have done their own fair share of spying, it will be advantageous to encourage a bit of magical cooperation. With the aid of Catryn and Hattie’s secondhand black magic, the adventurers may just get a leg up on the duke and duchess. Put another way: Catryn and Hattie are probably non-factors in the struggle for Thestwick unless the party can convince them to take advantage of the secrets they’ve gleaned. Alternatively, players cooperating with Lord Fandry can bolster their reputation by ratting out the potential dissident witches. 

ALDERHAM PEAT 
The Alderham Fen is the perfect environment for the accumulation of peat. This layer of dense, moist, partially decayed biomass might at first seem like little more than unfarmable mud, but it holds a great many uses, and even more secrets. For Thestwick residents, the primary purpose of harvesting peat is for fuel. Burning wood is strictly forbidden, given the scarcity of trees. As such, all heating and cooking uses dried peat instead. Women dry the peat in large open-air piles, a process that takes days. Residents will use peat bricks in specially built stoves to keep their homes warm during the winter or to cook eels and shellfish. Once dried, the peat is highly flammable, which is both a blessing and a curse. Accidental fires are unfortunately common, and a peat blaze is difficult to extinguish. The residents are constantly worried that the Lowland Reclamation Corps with their new-fangled “cigars” will accidentally start a blaze that they cannot put out